# Testing Writeup

## Milestone 3 Tests
- [Ken]TestPlayer.testSetPlayerNameNull(): This test ensures that the setPlayerName method throws an exception if it is passed a null value. If the test fails, then the system is taking in a null value for the name which could cause a null pointer exception. This is part of the M2 requirements.
- [Ken]TestPlayer.testSetPlayerNameZeroLength(): This test ensures that the setPlayerName method throws an exception if it is passed an empty string value. If the test fails, then the system is taking a blank name which causes potential display issues with showing the name. This is part of the M2 requirements.
- [Jinwoo]TestGameData.testSetEasyMoneyValid(): This test ensures that the money is 1000 when the difficulty is set EASY.
- [Jinwoo]TestGameData.testSetEasyHealthValid(): This test ensures that the health is 200 when the difficulty is set EASY.
- [David]TestGameData.testSetMediumMoneyValid(): This test ensures that the money is 750 when the difficulty is set MEDIUM. If the test fails, then the system is not properly setting the starting money for the medium difficulty mode. This could mean that the buttons in the setup screen are not functioning properly, or the system does not properly differentiate between each difficulty. This is part of the M2 requirements.
- [David]TestGameData.testSetMediumHealthValid(): This test ensures that the health is 150 when the difficulty is set MEDIUM. If the test fails, then the system is not properly setting the starting health for the medium difficulty mode. This could mean that the buttons in the setup screen are not functioning properly, or the system does not properly differentiate between each difficulty. This is part of the M2 requirements.
- [James]TestGameData.testSetHardHealthValid(): This test ensures that the health is 100 when the difficulty is set to HARD.
- [James]TestGameData.testSetHardMoneyValid(): This test ensures that the money is 500 when the difficulty is set HARD.
- [Lucas]TestGameData.testTowerOneNotEnoughMoney(): This test ensures that the ongoingPurchase variable is not set to true if player lacks enough money to purchase a tower of type one.
- [Lucas]TestGameData.testTowerTwoNotEnoughMoney(): This test ensures that the ongoingPurchase variable is not set to true if player lacks enough money to purchase a tower of type two.

## Milestone 4 Tests
- [Ken]TestGameLoop.testSingleStep(): This test ensures that a single step is called after 1/4 of second of elapsed time. Failure indicates that the game loop is not functioning and over time combat will not happen properly. This is part of the M4 requirements.
- [Ken]TestGameLoop.testDoubleStep(): This test ensures that a double step is called when the gameloop is not called frequently enough. Failure indicates that the game will not handle a slower computer and keep the game flowing at a constant time. This is part of the M4 requirements.
- [Lucas]TestGameData.testEndScreenTriggersAtZero(): This test ensures that when the monument's health is set to zero and no purchase is ongoing (i.e. the game is running), the application switches scenes to the Game Over screen. Failure would allow the application to remain on the Map screen, and spamming the Start Combat button would still allow the enemies to move. This is part of the M4 requirements.
- [Lucas]TestGameData.testEndScreenTriggersLessThanZero(): This test ensures that when the monument's health is set to less than zero and no purchase is ongoing (i.e. the game is running), the application switches scenes to the Game Over screen. This can occur if a UGA enemy, which deals 20 damage, reaches the monument with 10 health left. Failure would allow the application to remain on the Map screen, and spamming the Start Combat button would still allow the enemies to move. This is part of the M4 requirements.
- [James]TestGameData.testCombatStartedFalseAtZeroHealth(): This test ensures that when the monument's health is zero (this represents the enemies destroying the tower), the game loop should pause, and combatStarted should be false. This ensures that the game loop does not keep running once the game has ended.
- [James]TestGameData.testCombatStartedFalseAtNegativeHealth(): This test ensures that when the monument's health is less than zero (this represents the enemies destroying the tower, specifically if the last damage to the tower is not exactly enough to bring the momument health to zero, but instead makes its health negative), the game loop should pause, and combatStarted should be false. This ensures that the game loop does not keep running once the game has ended.
- [Jinwoo]TestGameData.testStartCombatButtonClick(): This test ensures that when start combat button on the screen is clicked, combat starts as it is supposed to. Failure indicates that the start time combat button is not working properly, which will not enable enemies to enter the game and it is part of M4 requirements.
- [Jinwoo]TestGameData.testStartCombatTruePositiveHealth(): This test ensures that when the monument's health is set to positive number and no purchase is ongoing, the game loop starts as it is supposed to. This ensures that the game runs properly when the right input is made and it is part of the M4 requirements.
- [David]TestGameData.testDefaultMonumentHealthEasy(): This test ensures that when the difficult is set to easy and combat starts, the monument health is 200. Failure indicates that the monument health is not initialized properly for the given difficulty. This is part of the M4 requirements.
- [David]TestGameData.testDefaultMonumentHealthMedium(): This test ensures that when the difficult is set to medium and combat starts, the monument health is 150. Failure indicates that the monument health is not initialized properly for the given difficulty. This is part of the M4 requirements.

## Milestone 5 Tests
- [Ken]TestBioTower.testDamagingEnemy: This test ensures that an enemy right next to the BioTower does get damaged, but only once. Failure indicates that the BioTower is not functioning and none of the enemies would get destroy before reaching the monument. This is part of the M5 requireents.
- [Ken]TestBioTower.testNotDamagingEnemy: This test ensures that an enemy that is 3 squares awa from the BioTower does not get damaged. Failure means that the BioTower is attacking enemies too far away and might destroy more enemies that it should. This is part of the M5 requirements.
- [Jinwoo]TestBioTower.testAttackNearbyWhenEnemyNearby: This test ensures that an enemy next to the BioTower does get damaged when BioTower's function attackNearby(enemy's x coordinate, enemy's y coordinate) is called. Failure indicates that the tower is not working as intended and is not damaging any enemies. This is part of the M5 requirements.
- [Jinwoo]TestMoneyTower.testNotDamagingEnemy: This test ensures that damaging the enemy is not part of money tower's abilities. Failure indicates that the MoneyTower is doing what it is not supposed to do, and this may make the game too easy if money tower can also damage enemies. This is part of the M5 requirements.
- [James]TestMoneyTower.gainMoney: This test ensures that after the money tower is placed, it properly increases the player's money amount in at the correct ineterval. THe money tower should increase the player's money by 5 every 20 ticks, so sooner. This test is important to our game to make sure we are meeting the last criteria, that it is possible for the player to gain money while playing the game.
- [James]TestMoneyTower.gainMoneyMultipleTowers: This test ensures that if multiple money towers are placed, they both increase the player's money independent of the other tower. Towers placed at different times should give the player money at different times, and 5 should be added to the player's money each time.
- [Lucas]TestBCTower.testBCTowerResetsHealthBelowZero: This test ensures that if a tower's health drops below zero, it will reset to its full health to be ready for redeployment the next time the BCTower places a wall. Without this, the wall would immediately be destroyed after initialization.
- [Lucas]TestBCTower.testBCTowerResetsHealthAtZero: This test ensures that if a tower's health drops to exactly zero, it will reset to its full health to be ready for redeployment the next time the BCTower places a wall. Without this, the wall would immediately be destroyed after initialization.
- [David]TestHealthBar.testEnemyHealthBarCalculation: This test ensures that if an enemy is attacked by a tower, the calculation used to determine the length of its health bar outputs the correct value. Failure indicates that the calculation is not done correctly, which would cause the enemy's health bar to not display the correct amount of health. This is part of the M5 requirements.
- [David]TestHealthBar.testMonumentHealthBarCalculation: This test ensures that if the monument loses health, the calculation used to determine the length of its health bar outputs the correct value. Failure indicates that the calculation is not done correctly, which would cause the monument's health bar to not display the correct amount of health. This is part of the M5 requirements.

## Milestone 6 Tests
- [Ken]TestWaveStep.testWaveTiming: This test ensures that the wave step class follows the passed in timing for how many steps to wait before releasing the enemy. Failure indicates that either no ememies will be released or that enemies will be released in a constant stream rather than being spread out. This is a game play requirement.
- [Ken]TestMonument.testAddHealthObservable: This test ensures that as the monument's health is change that it properly triggers an observable event a single time. Failure means the UI might not get updated with the new health value.
- [Lucas]TestBCTower.testIsWallPlacedAtZero: This test ensures that when a wall reaches zero health, during the next update check its isPlaced boolean value is set to false. This lets the game know that the wall is ready for redeployment. If this was not reset, the BCTower could only place one wall the entire game.
- [Lucas]TestBCTower.testIsWallPlacedBelowZero: This test ensures that if a wall's health goes below zero, during the next update check its isPlaced boolean value is set to false. This lets the game know that the wall is ready for redeployment. If this was not reset, the BCTower could only place one wall the entire game.
- [Jinwoo]TestEnemy.testFinalBossDestroysMonument: This test ensures that if the final boss attacks monument , monument gets valid damage from it. Failure indicates that monument does not get damaged and the game may not go to lose screen properly as intended. This is part of the M6 requirements.
- [Jinwoo]TestEnemy.testFinalBossGetDamage: This test ensures that if the final boss gets attacked by the bio tower for 20 ticks, it gets 1 damage which reduces the final boss's health by 1. Failure indicates that final boss will not get destroyed which will inevitably lead the game to losing state if final boss can't be defeated.
- [James]TestStats.testTimeIncrement: This test ensures that the total time stat that will be displayed on the win and lose screens is incrementing correctly during our game loop. This test both tests that the time stat is both incrementing as the game loop progresses, and that it is only incrementing every 4 "steps" in our game. This allows us to use the timer meant for running the game to calculate the time in seconds that the user has played.
- [James]TestStats.testHealthIncrement: This test ensures that the final monument health stat that will be displayed on the win and lose screens is incrementing correctly. This statistic shold only change when the monument is damaged. If this test fails, the final health stat will be useless and incorrect.
- [David]TestStats.testTowerIncrement: This test ensures that the stat counter which keeps track of the number of towers placed gets incremented correctly. Failure indicates that this statistic is not updated correctly, and an incorrect value could be displayed on the loss or win screen. This is part of the M6 requirements.
- [David]TestStats.testFinalHealthBelowZero: This test ensures that the final health of the monument is set to 0 if the monument health goes below zero. Failure indicates that this statistic is not set correctly when the monument is destroyed, and an incorrect value could be displayed on the loss screen. This is part of the M6 requirements.